README.md, before:

## 18F Guides Template

This is a skeleton repo containing the
[CFPB/DOCter](https://github.com/CFPB/DOCter)-based
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) template for
[18F Guides](http://18f.github.io/guides/).

### Generating the site/hosting locally

You will need [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org) ( > version 2.1.5 ). You may
consider using a Ruby version manager such as
[rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv) or [rvm](https://rvm.io/) to
help ensure that Ruby version upgrades don't mean all your
[gems](https://rubygems.org/) will need to be rebuilt.

On OS X, you can use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) to install Ruby in
`/usr/local/bin`, which may require you to update your `$PATH` environment
variable:

```shell
$ brew update
$ brew install ruby
```

To create a new guide and serve it locally, where `MY-NEW-GUIDE` is the name
of your new repository:

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:18F/guides-template.git MY-NEW-GUIDE
$ cd MY-NEW-GUIDE
$ ./go init
$ ./go serve
```

This will check that your Ruby version is supported, install the [Bundler
gem](http://bundler.io/) if it is not yet installed, install all the gems
needed by the template, and launch a running instance on
`http://localhost:4000/guides-template/`. (Make sure to include the trailing slash! The built-in
Jekyll webserver doesn't redirect to it.) That page contains further
instructions on how to adapt the template to a new guide repository.

After going through these steps, run `./go` to see a list of available
commands. The `serve` command is the most common for routine development.

You'll need to create a new Github repository for your new guide.

1. To do this, [create a new repository](https://github.com/organizations/18F/repositories/new).
    1. Enter the title and description.
    1. Click "Create Repository".
1. You'll see the repo URL at the top. Copy this url by hitting the handy "Copy to Clipboard" button next to the text box.
1. Go back to the directory where you cloned the `guides-template` repository. We're going to change this repo to point to the one you just created (which is empty) and push the template to it.

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin https://github.com/18F/MY-NEW-GUIDE.git
    git push origin 18f-pages
    ```

1. [Follow these instructions](https://github.com/18f/pages#adding-a-new-site) to publish the site. You're encouraged to do this sooner than later!
1. Display the live URL on the repository by going to the repository homepage and clicking "Edit" near the top.

Now you can edit the template freely, and push up changes as you need.

### Public domain

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md). As stated in [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
>dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
>with this waiver of copyright interest.

Commit message:

Updated Readme.md with intro information

README.md, after:

## API Prototype Documentation

This repo contains all of the documentation associated with the Agile BPA proposal.
We used https://pages.18f.gov/guides-template/ which provided everything neccessary for adding the documentation.

The following information/documentation from the original repo is kept as is for reference

This is a skeleton repo containing the
[CFPB/DOCter](https://github.com/CFPB/DOCter)-based
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) template for
[18F Guides](http://18f.github.io/guides/).

### Generating the site/hosting locally

You will need [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org) ( > version 2.1.5 ). You may
consider using a Ruby version manager such as
[rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv) or [rvm](https://rvm.io/) to
help ensure that Ruby version upgrades don't mean all your
[gems](https://rubygems.org/) will need to be rebuilt.

On OS X, you can use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) to install Ruby in
`/usr/local/bin`, which may require you to update your `$PATH` environment
variable:

```shell
$ brew update
$ brew install ruby
```

To create a new guide and serve it locally, where `MY-NEW-GUIDE` is the name
of your new repository:

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:18F/guides-template.git MY-NEW-GUIDE
$ cd MY-NEW-GUIDE
$ ./go init
$ ./go serve
```

This will check that your Ruby version is supported, install the [Bundler
gem](http://bundler.io/) if it is not yet installed, install all the gems
needed by the template, and launch a running instance on
`http://localhost:4000/guides-template/`. (Make sure to include the trailing slash! The built-in
Jekyll webserver doesn't redirect to it.) That page contains further
instructions on how to adapt the template to a new guide repository.

After going through these steps, run `./go` to see a list of available
commands. The `serve` command is the most common for routine development.

You'll need to create a new Github repository for your new guide.

1. To do this, [create a new repository](https://github.com/organizations/18F/repositories/new).
    1. Enter the title and description.
    1. Click "Create Repository".
1. You'll see the repo URL at the top. Copy this url by hitting the handy "Copy to Clipboard" button next to the text box.
1. Go back to the directory where you cloned the `guides-template` repository. We're going to change this repo to point to the one you just created (which is empty) and push the template to it.

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin https://github.com/18F/MY-NEW-GUIDE.git
    git push origin 18f-pages
    ```

1. [Follow these instructions](https://github.com/18f/pages#adding-a-new-site) to publish the site. You're encouraged to do this sooner than later!
1. Display the live URL on the repository by going to the repository homepage and clicking "Edit" near the top.

Now you can edit the template freely, and push up changes as you need.

### Public domain

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md). As stated in [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
>dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
>with this waiver of copyright interest.
